Good morning.
I'm Dominic Giampaolo.
I'm a Spotlight weenie and
member of the Spotlight team.
And today we're here to talk
about Spotlight importers.
What are we going to talk about?
First off, what is Spotlight?
Well, of course you've all seen it.
You've used it probably.
You've seen the keynote presentation.
But we're going to go into a
little bit more depth about the
architecture and how it's put together.
The next thing we're going to
talk about is importer background,
what you need to know
to write an importer,
the context in which importers run in,
and some other information
about importers.
Then, of course,
we're going to write an importer,
since this is a hands-on session.
And then we're going to talk a little bit
about some tips and tricks and debugging,
performance,
things you need to know about
importers once you've written one.
Then we're going to talk
about advanced importers.
Advanced importers are a little bit more
sophisticated in the things that they do,
and that will be the second
importer that we write.
The Spotlight architecture.
What is Spotlight?
Well, at the first level,
it's a system for storing, querying,
and retrieving information about files.
It's a kind of different lens or
a different view onto the files
that you have on your hard disk.
It's an alternate way to look at them.
What is it made up of?
Well, at the center, you have a server.
The server centrally
orchestrates everything.
There's some daemons that run
on behalf of the server and do
work for it and help it out.
The part that we're here to talk
about today are the importers.
Importers are probably the most
crucial part of the Spotlight system,
because that's how we get
metadata into the system.
Spotlight lives and dies by the
quality of the metadata that we have.
If we don't have good metadata,
we don't have anything.
We have searching by file names.
So importers are a very
crucial part of the system.
And of course,
there's a client API that applications
use to query the system and to
find out information about files.
But we're not going to be talking
about that at this session today.
That will be later on this
afternoon in Javier and
Vince DiMarco's talk at 2 o'clock.
So why do you care?
Spotlight makes your
documents easier to find.
So when someone remembers
something about their file,
oh yeah,
I entered this label or this track name,
they can find it, because Spotlight can
index that information.
It makes your documents
display more richly.
So you don't have a display
that's limited to just the name
and size and last modified time,
which really is irrelevant
for a lot of documents.
You can have things such as
the title or the authors or the
duration of a piece of music,
a lot more rich information about
it that will help the users to
organize things and to remember
things about the documents.
A big point is that it doesn't require
any code changes in your application.
This is a big point.
If I got up here and said, well,
Spotlight's going to take you
six months to work into your
application and to become a part of,
you'd all take me out
back and beat me up.
You all have schedules.
Releases to meet.
You don't have a lot of extra time.
What I'm here to tell you is, in fact,
that to be part of the Spotlight system
doesn't require significant changes,
or doesn't require any
changes in your application,
doesn't require significant
investment of effort either.
It also makes it easier to share
data with other applications.
So what's good about this is that instead
of having every app have to know about
every other app's file format to get
just some little piece of information,
there's a clean and consistent way to
get at that information about files,
the metadata about files.
through the spotlight APIs.
So, let's get graphical.
What does it look like?
At the center,
you have the Spotlight server.
On the left, you have documents,
which are created by applications.
When those documents are modified,
importers run to extract the information
and pull it into the Spotlight server.
The Spotlight server then puts
that information into either the
metadata store or the content
index store as appropriate.
We have two separate stores
because there's different
ways of indexing information.
The metadata attributes
are stored in one way,
and the content index is
stored in a format that's
appropriate for searching it.
It's more sophisticated
for that kind of search.
And then on the right-hand side,
you have applications that talk and
communicate through the Spotlight API.
So, let's step through it.
What happens when you write a file?
Again, at the center,
we have the Spotlight server,
which is always running in the
background and keeping an eye on things.
An application, that's you guys,
comes along, writes a document.
That document gets modified,
the file is closed, the kernel says,
boom, hey, that file was modified
to the Spotlight server.
Spotlight server, in turn,
runs an importer.
That's you guys.
The importer takes the
information out of the file,
pulls it into the Spotlight server,
which, of course,
updates the data stores, and in turn,
sends updates to applications
that have live queries or are
asking information about that file.
So, that's kind of, you know,
at a high level,
how the Spotlight system works.
What are the concepts behind Spotlight?
What we're here to talk
about today are importers.
Importers are plug-ins that are
loaded by the Spotlight system.
Importers are plug-ins that are loaded
by the Spotlight system and publish
metadata from a particular file format.
So an importer handles
some set of file formats,
knows how to take data
that's in the file,
metadata, pull it out,
and pass it back to the Spotlight server.
There's the MD Item.
Items represent files.
All items in the Spotlight
system are represented by
files or correspond to a file.
Items are made up of attributes,
and attributes are a name,
a type of data, and a value.
The value is the data that's
associated with the name.
There's also a MD Query API,
which is a way to,
that's how you find items.
Now, we're not going to talk
about the last two things.
Again,
that's the talk later this afternoon.
We're going to focus on importers.
So, how can you integrate with Spotlight?
The first level,
if you work with an existing
file format that already is
supported by the Spotlight system,
such as JPEG or MP3 or a
variety of other formats,
put useful metadata into your documents.
This is a big thing.
A lot of file formats, like I said,
such as JPEG,
already have support for metadata.
And if your app allows the
users to edit that information,
you're already part of
the Spotlight system.
You're enabling people to
work with metadata and to be a
part of the Spotlight system.
The next level,
if you have a custom file format,
then write an importer.
Other things that you can do to help,
don't type files incorrectly.
We've seen a few cases where
people say they'll go and
write out this very nice 10,
20, 40, 50 megabyte file of binary
data and say that it's text.
That really hurts us because it can
take quite a while to figure out that
this isn't one of the 20 or 30 different
character set and codings that are out
there and we can waste a lot of time.
So make sure that you
type your files correctly.
If it's actually binary data,
don't type it as text, please.
Get your temp files where
Spotlight won't index them,
such as in /temp.
If you don't already do that,
that's a good place to put things.
Or if you want to,
put them into a directory whose
name ends in .noindex or .build.
This way Spotlight will see that
and not index any of the files
that are in that subdirectory.
So this is a good place to put
temporary files that you don't
want Spotlight messing with.
Now, I'm going to do a quick little demo.
Can we switch to demo one?
Okay, so I'm going to do a search here
for "doc." And you see this pulls
up a whole wide variety of things,
and it looks pretty nice, right?
There's some system preferences,
there's folders, there's images,
and if I click on an image,
there's some information stored for it.
Oh, not for that one, for a TIFF file.
I can't do that actually.
So here we can see the
dimensions and so on.
There's PDF documents which
have lots of metadata title.
And you might say, "Wow,
that's really great.
Look at all that.
They probably hard-coded
all that stuff." Well,
what happens if I was to search for,
let's see, 8, 6, 7, 5, 3, 0, 9.
Okay.
What do we get here?
A few of you got that.
All right.
This is file badbug.dbg.
Well, what's that?
What's a .dbg file?
Aside from also being my log-in,
it's a little file format that I invented
for the purposes of this demo where
I record some information about bugs
that get assigned to me at Apple.
And so if I click on the info icon,
we can see, oh, debug session name.
This is about Jenny's file system woes.
And the radar number.
Radar is the name of
the bug system at Apple,
8, 6, 7, 5, 3, 0, 9.
And there's some keywords
associated with it.
And what's cool about this is that
this file is seamlessly integrated
as part of the Spotlight system.
If I was to do a get info
and pull it up into Finder,
Finder doesn't know anything about
.dbg files and nor does Spotlight.
But because of the way I've written
the importer for this file format,
which is very simple file format,
but the way I've written the importer
gets my data integrated in a very
clean way into the rest of the system.
And this is what we're going to
show you how to do later today when
we go through an advanced importer.
Okay.
Back to the slides.
Slides?
Thanks.
So,
Apple ships a whole bunch of importers
for quite a variety of file formats,
everything from JPEG and Photoshop,
QuickTime, of course, PDF.
If you work with these file formats,
your job is done.
You guys can get up and leave.
No, stick around.
There's not much that you have to do,
actually, except for, again,
putting useful metadata in the documents.
But if you don't work with those file
formats or you have a custom file
format in addition to some of those,
then you have to write an importer,
and that's what we're
going to talk about now.
So, here's how we're going to do it.
Some rules of the game,
then we'll go through a simple importer.
We'll talk about performance,
tips and tricks in debugging,
and then we'll move on to an
advanced importer that handles that
.dbg file format I just showed you.
Some basics.
Importers need to publish
metadata that helps the user.
That's what this is all about.
A lot of times people hear
about Spotlight and they go,
"Man, this is just great.
I am gonna publish so many attributes,
you wouldn't believe it." That's
a little bit too much excitement.
What's better is to keep in mind you
want to publish things that are going
to help the user find their document.
That doesn't mean 75 attributes.
You want to do things that are gonna
help display the--have--allow the
document to display more richly.
So keep that in mind,
keep that in forefront when
you're making your choices about
what kind of metadata to publish.
Importers should not use the
Spotlight system to store large blobs
of binary data or icon previews.
That's really not what it's about.
Again, Spotlight is about
searching user metadata.
And what that comes down to is that
too much noise can confuse the user.
If your documents show up for pretty
much anything that anyone types,
because you have attributes
that match everything,
basically, that's not helpful.
That doesn't help the
user find their documents.
That just basically spams them.
So you want to keep it so that
you have relevant metadata for
the documents of your type.
Another aspect is that there's
no user interface to an importer.
In fact, we disallow it in the context
which an importer is run.
So you can't pop up a
dialog box that says,
"Do you want me to publish this
attribute or this attribute?"
You have to keep everything to be
run silently in the background.
UTI types.
This is something that not a
lot of people are familiar with.
It was in a system that was
introduced in the Panther time frame,
the Uniform Type Identification System.
And it's a pretty neat way to
manage type information about files.
The file name or type,
or file name extension or type
code determine the file type.
For any UTI type,
there's only going to be one importer.
One importer, however,
can handle a variety of UTI types,
such as our image importer,
which can handle JPEG, TIFF, Photoshop,
and so on.
You have to get your
UTI declarations right.
This is probably the most difficult
part of writing an importer,
and that's something we're
going to spend a fair bit of
time on in the coming slides.
Attributes.
Well, what are good attributes?
Things that, again,
the user will associate
with the document.
If the user actually bothered to
type in some text for a document,
then that's probably something
that's a candidate for being
published as an attribute.
things like the copyright, the title,
track names, layer names in documents.
Text content, however,
is a special attribute.
If you have a file format where,
for example,
you have a notes field or some
other sort of large body of text,
that's probably not appropriate to be
published as an individual attribute,
but it's more likely to be published
as a KMDItemTextContent attribute,
which is a larger body of text that gets
indexed into the content index store.
Bad attributes are things like
app-specific implementation details,
window position.
People don't search for that window that
I put at x equals 572 and y equals 379.
That's useful to you,
but that doesn't belong
in the Spotlight system.
Here are some attributes
that we have predefined.
There's some general attributes
such as the KMDItemTitle,
the authors, and so on.
We have type-specific
attributes for images,
movies, audio.
There's a full list of them
in the mditem.h header file,
which is part of the metadata framework,
which lives inside of the
core services framework.
If you command double click on
any one of those names in Xcode,
it'll pull up the header file and
there's a whole bunch of HeaderDoc in
there that explains the types and
what the attributes are about.
So, writing a basic importer,
what do you have to do?
First off, you start with the metadata
importer template in Xcode.
If you pull up a new
project window in Xcode,
you go down to the Apple Plug-in
section and choose Metadata Importer.
You edit the Info.plist file
that's in the template file.
You have to write some code, of course,
and that's done in the GetMetadataForFile
stub function that we provide.
And then you install it,
and that's basically all there is to it.
So let's go through the steps.
In the Xcode Metadata Importer,
you see there's a standard
Apple Plug-in section,
and there's Metadata Importer.
You click Next, give it a name,
and you're ready to go.
Then you have the Info.plist file.
Here, if you need to define the
UTI type for your file format,
you want to edit the UT exported
type declarations key and the
information that's in there.
And this is a fairly complicated step,
so we'll go through that
when we write the importer.
You have to make sure that your
UT type conforms to section is correct.
That's, again, very important to get your
documents displayed properly
in the rest of the system.
Then, once the UTI is defined,
you need to bind that UTI type to
the importer that you're writing.
And that's done in the
LS Item Content Type section.
Here is where you identify which
UTI types this importer will handle.
And this is the binding that matches your
importer with a particular file type.
So when the system sees a
file of that type modified,
it knows which importer to call.
Of course, there's a bunch of other
informational fields,
name, size, name and version number and
so on of the importer bundle.
You should edit those.
However, one final warning,
don't just do a global search and replace
of com.apple and just say com.mycompany.
That will break the file
format and will not work.
Implement the code.
Well, I can't tell you how to do
this for your file format,
but we have a stub function
called getMetadataForFile that
wants to efficiently extract the
attributes from your file format
and put them into a dictionary,
which that's a CFMutable dictionary
that is used by the system to
then publish those attributes.
The last thing you have to do
is to install your importer.
There are a couple of locations
that you can install it.
You can put it standalone
into /library-spotlight,
and if you're just releasing
a separate importer by itself,
that's probably the
most logical location.
You can put it into the user's home
directory in /library-spotlight.
Or you can put it in
with your application.
You can have an app bundle importer.
If you have foo.app,
you put it into the contents
library Spotlight folder,
and you put the package or the
bundle for your importer there,
and then the system will recognize
that when your app is installed.
There's a precedence.
As I mentioned,
you can only have one importer
for a particular UTI type.
The precedence that we look at is
/library/users/home/directory/library/sp
otlight/library/spotlight/system/library/
spotlight/app_bundled_importers.
So,
let's go on and write a simple importer.
Demo 1, please.
As I said, in NextCode,
if you come up to here
and choose a new project,
and don't worry,
I'm not going to actually write
all the code by hand here alive.
I scroll down,
and if I see Metadata Importer Template,
and choose Next, and give it a name,
Fufu, what we get is a sort of
standard template that has a
bunch of pre-populated files
for a metadata importer.
But, like I said,
we're not going to write the code
completely from scratch here.
We're going to start
with the IFF importer.
demo.
And the first thing that we do
is pull up the InfoP-List file.
So this is going to be an importer
for the old Amiga IFF file format.
I just happened to be browsing around
the developer sample code and found a
piece of code that Alie Ozer wrote that
knows how to open up these image files.
And I said, "Oh,
that's great because I don't have to
do anything." And so I wanted to just
publish the little bit of metadata
that I could out of these files.
And so the easiest thing was
just the width and height for
the purposes of this demo.
So we're going to go through
the process of what it takes to
write an importer for this Amiga
interchange file format picture.
Now, the first thing that we do is the
UT exported type declaration section.
We have to identify what the UTI type
name is and we're going to call it
com_amiga_interchange-files.file-format.
We give it a simple little description,
IFF image file format.
And now we have to say
what it conforms to.
And I'm going to talk about
this a little bit more later,
but for now we can just say this is an
image and so it conforms to public.image
and that takes care of everything for us.
We have the OS type which is the
four character code which is unlikely
to be assigned for this so I just
chose .IFF as a four character code.
And then we have the file name
extensions which is the most likely
one to be assigned for this file.
So we're going to call this .IFF.
We're going to call this .ILBM.
And then we're going
We've also chosen to define a
MIME type for this UTI because
UTI subsumes MIME types for
character codes and everything,
and we've called it image/iff.
So that takes care of
defining the UTI for the
com.amiga.interchange.file.format type.
Now, as I said, you have to bind,
you have to connect that UTI type,
which exists in the UTI space,
with this importer.
And we've done that with
the LS item content types.
This is saying,
this Info.plist is declaring
that this importer,
his role is to handle the
CommaMegaInterchange file format type.
I've also edited some of the
other informational fields
to give the name and so on,
but that's not so interesting.
Now, in the code,
here we'll pull this up and make
the window a little bit bigger,
we have the stub function,
get metadata attributes from file.
And there's a couple of
parameters that are passed to it,
but I'm just going to call off to
the Objective-C code that Ali had
written and that I've wrapped up in
a little stub function and to get it.
So we have a CFString,
which is the path to the file,
and an NSMutable dictionary,
which are the attributes.
These are toll-free
bridged to each other.
So we call off to the Objective-C code,
and I'll pull this up.
We're not going to actually
go through the process of
reading the IFF file format.
I'll just talk about how it's called.
So the first thing we do is we create
an NSData object and we say NSData data
with contents of file and we pass
it the path that we were given.
We failed to get the file because it
doesn't exist or there was some error.
We just return false and we're done.
Once we have the file data,
we have this IFF ILBM info
structure named PIC.
And we set up this parsing,
parse the file into this PIC structure,
and that has the metadata that
we want to publish for this file,
for the width and height.
I've actually disabled the
code that decodes the image.
Dominic Giampaolo
So then the next thing
that we have to do,
publish the width and height.
This variable, pic.bmhd.w,
apologies for the wonderful
naming conventions,
we create an NSNumber for
that width variable.
And then we say, for the key,
kmdItem pixelWidth,
we're going to set the value num
into this attributes dictionary.
And then we're going to do the
same thing for the pixel height.
So for that key, we've created an
NSNumber pic.bmhd.h for the height,
and we set the value
and push that into the,
put that into the attributes dictionary.
We're all done, and we return true.
If you're actually looking
at this code on the DVD,
there's two extra releases in
there that shouldn't be there,
but I didn't make the change
before the DVD cutoff date.
So that's, we have that.
Let's build our importer.
Okay, build succeeded.
These are very fast machines.
And now I'm going to pull up a terminal.
- And now the last step that I have
to do is to install the importer.
I'm going to copy build IFF importer.
is the founder of the Spotlight library,
and he's been working on
a lot of these things.
Sure enough, if I scroll through this,
we have Users, Apple Library, Spotlight,
IFF Importer.
So as a first pass,
we've seen that the Spotlight
system has found our importer,
and that it was able to load it,
and so we've got a
first level of success.
Now, what we're gonna do is see
if we can actually import
some data from a Spotlight.
[Transcript missing]
dash D2 dash F sample image,
we'll get a little bit of output here.
And let's go through what we got.
So this is the output from
when I ran that command.
Says import of sampleImage.IFF
and the type comAmigaInterchange
dash file dash format.
And it says it's gonna do it using the
IFF importer that we just installed.
So this part looks great.
And it says that it's sending these
attributes for that file to the server.
There's a bunch of other stuff
such as the content creation
date and the content type,
which were done for us.
And then, lo and behold,
there we have our pixel
width and pixel height.
Great.
So with very little effort,
we've done a very simple importer and
published two attributes for this file.
Now you say, great, Dominic,
nothing ever goes that smoothly.
Demos are always nice and everything
works fine the first time you do it.
Let's say someone comes in and says,
"Dominic, Dominic, Dominic,
what did you do?
com_amiga_interchange-file-format."
That's not the right way to declare it.
You should just say com_amiga.iff
for the UTI type of this file.
Sure, no problem, Bob.
I can make that change.
It's just two strings
that I have to edit.
What I'm going to do here is introduce
a change into the Info.plist file
and then show you what can happen
or one of the problems that you can
run into when you're making changes.
I saved that, made my two little edits,
and hit Build.
It's fast.
It's just the plist file.
Go back and I'll copy this into place.
I've installed my importer again.
I say, "Okay, no problem, Bob.
Let's take a look here.
We'll do an MD import.
-d2-f of that sample image again.
Ooh, that's not good.
Let's see.
So, like I said,
I've purposely introduced a
problem here to demonstrate how
you would go about and fix it.
So what we can see happened is it says
com_amiga.interchange-file-format.
There's no importer for it.
But wait, I changed my importer.
I changed the Info.plist file, right?
So what's going on?
Well, the problem is that because we just
copied in the importer for the UTI,
the system didn't notice that
the plist file had changed.
So what you really need to
do before you install it is
always remove the previous one.
I do an RM of the old importer,
and then I copy things in again.
Now the system will have properly
noticed that the file was changed,
the InfoP-List file was updated,
and sure enough, there we go,
our type is now Comm Amiga IFF,
and the pixel width and
height got published properly.
So this is one of the things that
you can run into when you make
changes to the InfoP-List file
that you need to be aware of.
You don't want to be too clever.
You always want to remove the
old copy and copy in the new one.
And as we'll see later on,
you can also run into issues
if you have multiple copies,
if you have backup versions of
your importer sitting around,
you need to be careful with that,
because the old versions can sometimes
mysteriously override things,
and I'll talk about
how to figure that out.
So that hints... And that's the
end of writing a simple importer.
If we go back to the slides...
Let's recap what we did.
The first thing was we
edited the Info.plist file.
We defined the UTI type for the
Comm Amiga interchange file format,
and we bound that importer to
the UTI type that we defined.
We had to write the code,
which was easy for us thanks to Oli.
We just ripped it off and packaged it up,
and then we installed it.
We ran the mdimport command
and we tested it out.
Now,
let's start to talk about performance.
This is a very crucial
topic for importers.
Importers, like we just ran,
are very simple, straightforward.
They simply, you know,
you run it against a single file,
everything looks great, no problem,
I'm done, time to, you know,
crack open a brewski and call it a day.
Well, it's not quite that simple.
You actually need to check your
performance and you need to
be careful about a few things.
When you run it against a single file,
like I said,
it's a very simple sort of scenario.
However,
MD importers run in different contexts.
If someone comes along and
plugs in a hard drive that has,
I don't know, 5,000 or 10,000 instances
of your file format on it,
your importer is going to run
in a very long-lived context.
It won't be run for every
single one of those files,
but it will be run for
many of them at a time,
repeatedly.
So if you have a memory leak,
or if you do something that really
abuses or thrashes the system,
the user is going to notice it.
So you need to be careful
about performance.
You need to use caution
when reading large files.
You don't want to just blindly
suck in 50 megabytes of data
like that IFF importer did.
If we were passed a file which
wasn't really an IFF file,
and we did NSData with contents
of path on a 50 megabyte file,
"Thrash the machine pretty
thoroughly." So you need to be
cautious when you read large files.
Not only should you avoid
reading all the data if you can,
you should just seek around and use
your knowledge of the file format
to get the bits that you need,
but you also have to avoid
allocating lots of memory.
I just used that because those Amiga
IFF images typically are 320 by 200,
and I was lazy, it was a simple demo,
but that's not the kind of thing that
you would do in a production one.
Don't blindly reuse code.
This is a frequent thing that's
convenient to do to get a first pass up,
where you just take your
existing document reading code,
pull that in to the importer template,
and just inflate your
full document structure,
pull out the three integers that
you need to publish or the few
strings that you want to publish,
and then call it a day.
That's probably not the right thing,
because if you're re-inflating
an entire document structure with
all the fields and all the data,
you're probably using a lot more
system resources than you need to.
It's much better if you, again,
use your knowledge of the file format
to find the pieces of data that you
need and get those out efficiently and
publish those as quickly as you can.
I've mentioned mdimport-p.
This is a good thing to do,
where if you take a large directory that
has a lot of copies of your files in it,
run mdimport.
mdimport-p and that directory name,
it will go through and iterate
and import all of those files.
It will print out some statistics
about how long each file took,
where you spent a lot of the time.
This way you can start to diagnose
if you're using too much memory,
if you're taking too
long to process files,
and understand what's going on.
Some tips for importers:
Use standardized attribute
names where you can.
Don't invent new things just
to be gratuitous because it's
KMDItem My Company Title.
No, it's probably KMDItem Title.
Use the existing ones that I mentioned
that are in MDItem.h when you can.
So don't invent new things gratuitously.
If you have something like a headline,
well, that can probably be
classified as a title.
Don't forget text content
when it's applicable.
We don't all sit around writing
word processors and text editors,
but a lot of different
applications actually have
quite a bit of text in them.
For example, this presentation here has
a fair bit of text in it,
yet it's not really a word processor,
and so we publish things through
the KMDItem text content attribute.
As I mentioned earlier,
if you had a notes field or comments
or some other large body of strings,
you can publish that
information as text content,
and it will be associated
with the document.
It's a document,
and it'll be indexed efficiently,
and the document will be found
when a user searches for those
words that show up in there.
Don't publish too much.
Again, there's sometimes a lot
of initial excitement,
"Oh baby, I can publish all these
attributes." Well,
it's important to keep in mind what is
going to help the user find the document.
What are things that they
might be likely to search for?
If you need to remove attributes,
for example,
you see that the file has been modified
and now there is no longer copyright
information that's been taken out,
or the title or the
author has been deleted,
you can remove it by simply
not publishing that attribute.
In the Template Importer project,
there are two files that get included:
schema.xml and schema.strings.
We're going to talk
about those in a minute,
but if you don't use them,
just delete them from the project.
Now, here's where it gets tricky.
The find points of the Info.plist file.
Or I should say, not tricky,
but a little bit more
advanced and subtle.
There are a couple of things.
The UT imported type declarations
instead of UT exported type declarations.
The difference here is that if you
are defining a UTI type and you
are the master of that definition,
such as in the IFF importer example,
you would use UT exported
type declarations.
That means that you're the master copy
of the definition for that UTI type.
If you're shipping an importer for
some other file format that you are
not the controller of or the owner of,
you probably want to use
UT imported type declarations,
which says,
if this type declaration does not exist,
then I would like to define it
and here's the information for it.
This would be the case if you're
shipping your importer separately from
your application and then you intend
to import it from the same file format.
You would want to update your
application with the UTI information,
the full UTI information later on.
You can ship the importer
separately and the information
will get overridden later on.
Keep all the values that you store for
the keys lowercase when appropriate.
In the description fields
it's not as important,
but in the other fields generally
keep everything lowercase.
Don't forget about the OS type
attribute if you need it.
That's the four character code.
So if you use the four character codes,
define the OS type so that that
way that connection is made,
or that binding exists for
that way of identifying a
file type with your importer.
The UT type conforms to section
is pretty important as well.
There's two notions of
conformance for the UTI system.
There is the physical hierarchy,
that is how the file is stored,
and then there's the semantic hierarchy.
So how is a file stored?
Well, either it's a plain file, you know,
a stream of bytes like we're all used to,
or it's a package.
There are also directories,
but that doesn't really apply here.
So you have public.data for a flat file,
and you have com.apple.package for things
that are package-based file formats.
So that's the physical hierarchy,
and you should say what
your file conforms to on
the physical side of things.
The semantic hierarchy is
what is stored in the file.
So here you have something very generic,
public.content, which just says I've
got stuff in my file,
or composite content when
you have mixed media,
such as text and pictures.
So you have a lot of
different types of pictures,
as you would in a PDF file.
And then you have additionally
things for specific data types,
such as public.image,
if you have a new image format,
or audio and so on, movies, etc.
Again, Chris Lynn has a talk,
I think it's at 5:00 today,
about the UTI system,
and I strongly encourage you
to check it out to learn more
about that aspect of things.
As you saw,
I used a couple of command line
tools to help me with diagnosing or
figuring out whether my importer was
written correctly and was working.
The most important one for importers,
strangely enough, is named MD Import,
which imports files and prints out some
global state about the Spotlight system.
There's MDLS,
which will list the attributes of a file,
and MD Find,
which will let you issue a query
to see if your attributes are being
published properly so that you can
query against them and find them.
Read the man pages for the full
list of options for those programs.
They're definitely very helpful.
Again, testing and debugging,
what you saw that I did was,
I started simple.
I ran mdimport-l,
saw that my importer was listed.
That's job number one,
did the Spotlight system even see it?
Then I ran mdimport with dash d1,
or I did dash d2 on a file
and saw that it was imported.
Be careful if you have multiple copies.
As I alluded to,
if you start having multiple
copies around that you've copied
with the Finder or in the Shell,
the system can start to find
too many of them and the
Info.plist files can conflict.
So you need to be careful with that.
Always start from a
fresh importer template.
Sometimes you may have a couple
of different file formats.
You say, okay, boom,
I got my first one done.
Now I'm just going to make a copy of
this project and start on the second
file format and whip through that one.
And, you know, be done by 5:00.
You don't want to do that because,
as you saw at the end of the file,
there are some UUIDs that
are automatically generated
as part of the template.
If you just make a copy of it,
those UUIDs will be the same and
that's not good because that will cause
the plug-in system to get confused
when two bundles have the same UUID.
You may need to actually run
the debugger on your importer.
It would be great if everybody wrote
code that worked the first time,
like it did in the demo, right?
Well, it didn't work out that way the
first time when I was writing it,
so sometimes you have to
run GDB on an importer.
The way to do that, since it's a plug-in,
is you run GDB on the MD import program,
and then you can set a future breakpoint,
which will say when this
function gets defined,
set the breakpoint,
and then call it when it gets hit.
So if you just type, you know,
set a breakpoint on
get metadata for file,
you'll get control of the application of
MD import when your importer is called.
You can also do this in Xcode.
If you set the project
executable to be MD import.
And then, you know,
set the appropriate command
line arguments as well.
when it still doesn't work.
So this is what happened to me late
last week as I was trying to do the
final touches on this presentation.
I just couldn't for the
life of me figure out why,
you know, when I went through the
example of switching the
interchange-file-format to IFF,
what was going on?
Well,
it turned out that there were some issues
with the LS register knowing about too
many copies of it in the plist file.
So, the way to diagnose this
is with LS register-dump.
What this will do is dump out the
full state of the UTI system so that
you can see who is defining what and
if things are conflicting that you,
you know, don't want to be that way.
So with LS register-dump,
you can see who it is that has defined
all of the UTI types and if there are
multiple definitions for the same UTI.
If there are,
you can force re-importing a particular
one with -f -v or you can force
re-importing a particular one with
-f -v or you can use -kill -seed to get
it to fully recreate its UTI structure.
The LS register program is part of the
application services framework and it
lives in that nice long path right there.
You can run that and it will, you know,
you can use that to clear up any
potential issues that you have.
That's again a last resort, however,
it is, you know,
some to advanced importers.
In the demo that I did,
you saw how I had this .dbg file format,
which is, you know,
not known to the system, and yet those,
the attributes that I published
showed up very cleanly and looked
like a native part of the system.
That's what we're going
to talk about now.
So, how does that happen?
First off, I defined some new attributes.
One of the things that I did was
I had to go and edit the attributes
section of the schema.xml file.
The schema.xml file is where
you define new attributes.
So, for example,
I have two of them right here.
You have attribute name
is comfoo-track-title,
and I say that it's a CFString,
it's type.
Another one is, for example, a user ID,
and I say that that's a CFNumber.
The next part that you have
to modify is the Type section.
Here,
you add each attribute that your importer
publishes to the All Adders list.
So even if it's a standard attribute,
you would want to add it
to the All Adders section,
in addition to the new
ones that you're defining.
If you want an attribute
displayed in the system,
so for example, I had the K, K,
well I didn't call it K, I said COM,
debug, debug session name,
or radar number,
then I add those to the Display Adders,
and then the system will know that these
are attributes that should be displayed.
Why would you have an attribute
that you don't actually display?
Because you might do something
that searches for it on behalf
of the user to identify things,
but it's not something that
you would want to display.
You would want them,
or you would want shown in the
Finder or in the Spotlight window.
Don't redefine existing attribute names.
So you should never have
something that says KMDItemFu
that we already have in MDItem.h.
You would never add that as a
new attribute in your schema.xml.
You might add it to the All Adders
list or the Display Adders list,
but you would not actually define it.
You can run md check schema
on the schema.xml file to see
if you got the syntax right.
And md import dash x and dash a will
also dump out some state so that you can
see if once your importer is installed,
did the schema take effect.
Now, of course,
if we named our attributes com, foo,
track title,
with all those nice underbars,
people wouldn't be very happy.
So there's a way to map from the
internal name of an attribute to the
external name or the user visible name.
So you can define human readable
strings in the schema.strings file,
which is a UTF-16 encoded file,
so you need to use an
appropriate editor to edit it.
If you're in Xcode,
you don't have to think about it,
but you should know that
it's a UTF-16 encoded file.
So here you can define
the mapping from com,
foo,
track title to be equal to track title,
which is what the user would see.
You can also describe your attributes.
Now, this is something that's used
if you've ever brought up the
Finders advanced find window.
In there, you can bring up the searching
for any kind of attribute,
and there's a list of attribute names on
the left column and a short description.
This is that description.
And in this case,
it's the title of a track,
which isn't a whole lot more help,
but that's the example.
You can localize your
attribute names as well.
So in the individual language .lproj
directory in the schema.strings there,
you can have, for example,
comfoo track title equals traccia
titolo if you had the Italian one,
and the associated description.
If all we had were strings
and numbers for attributes,
that might not be bad,
but there's some modifiers as
well that you can apply to an
attribute that are kind of useful.
You can have a multi-valued attribute.
So what's a multi-valued attribute?
This is an example where
you have an attribute name,
such as "kmdItemKeywords", and
then you have an array of values
that are stored for that attribute.
The array of values are independent.
Each entry is independent of each other.
So, for example,
if you had kmdItemAuthors,
if you just had them all glommed
together separated by spaces,
you might run into a
problem where you have Leon,
Van, Bon, and Bon, Scott.
Well, is Van, Bon, and Bon,
which one is which part?
But by putting them as
separate entries in an array,
then when you do any matching,
there's no confusion as to
which one is which part.
But by putting them as
separate entries in an array,
then when you do any matching,
there's no confusion as to
which one is which part.
But by putting them as
separate entries in an array,
then when you do any matching,
there's no confusion as to
which one is which part.
whether or not you've got two
different pieces just because
they're separated by spaces.
So, if you have something for which
there are a set of values,
like I said, layer names, track titles,
a set of authors, or a set of keywords,
these are all examples of things
that would be multi-valued.
The next modifier is called No Search.
Now, why would you publish metadata
that you don't want to search,
you would ask?
Well, that's a good question.
But there are things that you
would want to search as an
application that you don't want to
be searched by default by the user.
So, when we do a search in the
spotlight menu or in the finder,
we generally search over all the
attributes that are associated
with the file except for those
that are marked No Search.
This comes up for us, you know,
with the CamdItemContentType
attribute which has strings
like public or apple in it.
And if you search for apple
and every single file matches,
you can search for the same thing.
So, you can search for the same thing.
matched because of com.apple
is somewhere in the hierarchy,
you'd be a little bit disconcerted.
So, however, we do search for things
for KMDItemContentType
equals a specific value.
So if you mark an attribute as no search,
what will happen is that
if you name it explicitly,
then you'll match against it.
Otherwise,
it won't match in the search over
all attributes type of query.
The last modifier is
the Uniqued modifier.
The Uniqued modifier is useful
when you have a lot of strings
that have the same values.
So if you had a set of team names,
for example,
you wouldn't want to store the
San Francisco Giants 10,000
times if you could store it in
a more compact representation.
So when you have something that
has on the order of 10s or 15s,
10s, 20s, 30s, less than, let's say,
100 values for a particular attribute,
then you might want to tag it with the
Uniqued equals True modifier so that that
way it will be stored more efficiently.
Here we have some examples down below.
So you have Track Title is multivalued,
and that's a very good example.
Or you have a private name,
and we say No Search.
Now that's a good example.
This is something where if a user,
you have a special UI that
does searching for things,
and that would, you would set,
you would do a search for,
one of the clauses might be,
"Komfu private name is equal to
some value," but normal searches
wouldn't trip over that attribute.
Team names, again,
is the example I gave for unique values.
And you can combine these.
You can have multi-valued, unique,
if you wanted, and so on.
This slide is a fairly esoteric topic.
We use it internally for things like
the display name of an application.
So we have localized display names
for something like a dress book,
which can be the Japanese characters for
the name "address book," or in Italian,
"rubrica indirizzi," or in English,
"address book." When you do a search,
if you type, for example,
"bibl," you're going to, in French,
you're going to find
"biblioteque." You won't find the
"biblereader.app," because that's
going to have a different name,
a localized name.
So if you wanted to publish a
localized value for an attribute
so that it would only be matched
in the user's preferred language,
the way to do that is
for the attribute name,
in this case,
"kmditemdisplayname," you publish
a dictionary that has the mapping
of this language equals this value.
And then, when a user does a search
in their preferred language,
or by default it's in
their preferred language,
it will only be matched
against that language code.
Now, let's move on to the actual
code of the Advanced Importer.
Demo 1, please.
All right, let's go back here.
We'll pull up this
dbg-importer Xcode definition.
[Transcript missing]
Here we have a very simple file format.
On the left side there is a keyword,
and on the right side is some value.
I just invented this for
the purposes of this demo.
We have session: and what the name of
the debug session was,
some keywords about it,
and a radar number.
We want to import this file
format into the Spotlight
system and publish these things,
these keys and values, as attributes,
which kind of makes sense.
We're going from a very simple flat
file to something that can be searched
very easily in the Spotlight system.
So the first thing I have to do,
because this file format
doesn't have a UTI type,
is give it a UTI type.
Again, since I'm going to be the
master of this file format,
I'm going to use the
UT exported type declarations.
I've chosen to call
it com.apple.dbg.demo,
since we use the reverse
DNS naming convention for UTIs.
And then I've given a reference URL,
which is sort of useless in this case,
and a simple description of DBG file.
Now here we have the
UT type conforms to section.
As I said,
you have the physical conformance
and the semantic conformance,
or semantic hierarchy.
And so it's public.data because
it's just a simple flat file,
and it's public.content for
the semantic hierarchy because
it's just some generic content.
The tag specification,
so here we have the OS type,
which is a four character code,
I just chose dbgz,
there's not really a four
character code for this file that
anybody's going to be setting,
but if there was,
that's what it would be.
And the file name extension,
which is going to be .dbg,
and that's the typical way that the
UTI would be associated with the file.
Then we have to bind our importer.
Again, this is how we go from the
UTI system and say that this file
is of this type and that this
is the importer that handles it.
We have the LS item content types and
I say that I handle com.apple.dbg.demo.
I've set the name and some
other informational fields.
Down here are the UUIDs that
were automatically generated
when I created this project.
That's what I was talking about earlier.
These are automatically
created on your behalf,
so if you were to copy a project,
you need to be careful because you
don't want to have duplicate UUIDs.
So that's the Info.plist file.
Now let's take a look at the XML file,
the schema.xml file that I defined.
And here we have the Attributes section,
as I mentioned.
And we have the name,
com.apple.dbg.session_name,
and the type is just simply a CFString.
The attribute name,
com.apple.dbg.radar_number,
and I've chosen just to make it a
string because they can be quite
long and I don't have to worry about
whether it fits in an int or so on.
In the Type section,
we have the type name,
which is com.apple.dbgdemo.
And now I'm going to associate what
attributes do I want associated
with this type and which attributes
do I want displayed with this type.
And here in the All Adders section, I say
com.apple.sessionName.radarNumber.kmdItem
Keywords,
because these are all the attributes
that I'm going to publish.
And I would like that same set of
attributes displayed for that type.
So that takes care of
the schema.xml file.
In the schema.strings file is where
I do the mapping from those kind of
ugly names of com_apple_sessionname
to the pretty names that showed up in
the UI when I did the get info on it.
So we have debug session
name and radar number.
I've also given a short description,
and that's all we have to
do in the strings file.
Now let's take a look at the code.
Get this so it's a
little bit more visible.
Here we have our stub
function getMetadataForFile.
And again, the arguments that are
passed are the path,
the CFStringRef to the path,
the attributes that
we're going to fill out,
and as well there's a content type UTI.
So if your file, if your importer handles
multiple file formats,
this could help you determine,
this would be one way to
help you determine which
type of file you were passed.
Now, in the last example,
I used Objective-C and kind
of went to the other extreme.
In this example,
I'm going to go the other way
and just use straight C code.
So I'm going to convert that
path to the file to a regular
C string using the function
CFStringGetFileSystemRepresentation.
And I'm going to do the same
thing for the content type UTI,
even though I'm not going to use it here.
And then I call this function
GetDebugInfo on the path and I pass
it the attributes dictionary.
This function, GetDebugInfo,
is pretty basic.
It's just going to open the file
and parse through each of the lines
and read them in and split apart
the key name on the left side and
the string value on the right side.
So, parse the line.
I'm not going to go into that.
That's just ripping things apart,
ripping the text apart.
And I create a CFString with
the C string for the value.
And I take a look at the key, and I say,
okay, if I got the session keyword,
then I'm going to do a CFDictionary add
value of com apple dbg session name,
and I'm going to store the value
that was in the file for that string.
If I got radar,
if I got the keyword radar, then again,
I will do CFDictionary add
value on this attribute name,
and I'll give it that value.
Now, the last one that we're going to
look at is the keywords attribute.
And this one's a little bit more tricky,
but is an important thing.
You have to get the types of the
data that you publish correct.
If you only had one keyword,
you can't just publish a string,
because the keywords attribute
is a multi-valued attribute.
So, what we have to do is create an
array and put our value into it,
even though it's going to be
the only entry in that array.
The way we do that,
create a mutable array called keywords,
and we append the value to it,
which is the value that
we got out of the file.
We add the Keywords array for the
KMDItemKeywords attribute name,
and we add that to the
Attributes dictionary.
So you see there's a couple of pieces.
You have the Attributes dictionary,
which contains a key, KMDItemKeywords,
and for that key is stored an array.
And in that array,
we in this case only have one value.
If you had multiple values,
you would append the values to the array,
and then all of those values
would be associated with that key.
Once we've done that,
and we've finished iterating the file,
we return zero for success, and we're...
Then we return, in this case,
true from getMetadataForFile,
and that is what we have
to do to publish it.
We build the importer again.
It's already installed actually,
but also let's see.
Spotlight.
install it, follow the real protocol,
Library Spotlight, DBG importer,
remove that one,
copy it into library on bad bug.
What we can see are that we have
the attributes that we published,
com, apple, dbg, radar number, 8, 6, 7,
5, 3, 0, 9, the session name and so on.
So our importer got published,
or published the correct metadata.
We see our keywords are published
correctly and everything's happy.
So that's basically what you have to
do for more sophisticated importer
to publish additional attributes.
So if we go back to the slides.
So again, what did we do here with
the Advanced Importer?
We defined some new attributes.
We had to go into the
schema.strings file,
or schema.xml file,
define the attributes,
which in this case was the
DBG session name and radar number,
declared the human readable forms of
those strings in the schema.strings file,
and we also went through and showed how
we would export an array-valued item.
Dominic Giampaolo
So, what have we gone through today?
Spotlight uses published metadata
to make documents easier to find.
They display more richly.
When you have nice metadata,
the system can display that even if
it doesn't know anything about that
type before or when Tiger shipped.
So, nobody knows anything
about the .dbg file format,
but we were able to publish
data or display those files
a little bit more nicely.
Any file can be part of
Spotlight if it has an importer,
and that's where you guys come in.
Your file format can be just as
seamlessly integrated as what I've shown
here today with the .dbg file format.
Importers publish metadata from files,
and they do this so that users
can find that information.
Importers are pretty easy to write.
That Amiga IFF image file format,
that literally took me, I'd say,
about 90 minutes,
maybe two hours at the most,
to cobble together,
and that's getting the code,
cleaning it up a little bit,
ripping out some stuff,
and putting it together.
Clearly,
for a more sophisticated file format,
it's going to take a
little bit more time,
but we're not talking about
an enormous investment.
It's on the order of a few
hours or a couple days,
not three weeks or two months.
Be cautious about what you publish.
Keep in mind,
you want to help users find things,
not spam them with your files for
everything that they can possibly type.
Performance is critical.
This is a very important thing.
One of the biggest problems we
had with shipping Tiger was that
importers could cause a significant
impact on the rest of the system,
so you need to be careful of that.
What you need to do.
What's the takeaway
from this presentation?
If you have a custom file format,
write an importer.
That's the biggest thing.
We're going to be here
today in a lab later on.
We'll have a lab tomorrow morning.
Come talk to us.
We'll help you do it.
I think in a lot of cases you'll find
that it's a pretty simple thing to do,
and then your files are part
of the Spotlight system.
Put useful metadata in your
documents for file formats that
you're writing an importer for,
and for file formats
that we already support.
Make sure to put metadata in there that
users will associate with the document.
And then, like I said,
come visit us in the lab
so that we can help you.
A couple other final things.
If you're looking for more information,
of course, the developer website
has a whole ton of stuff.
And there are some related sessions that
I would strongly suggest you check out.
There's the using the
spotlight query APIs,
that's the top half of things,
later on today at 2 p.m.
There's the spotlight
lab that starts at 3:30.
The UTI talk which is going to be at,
yes, it is 5 o'clock today.
And the lab that we
have tomorrow morning.
And with that,
I guess we'll open it up to Q&A.